this is a supplementary video for the
blunders um video lesson and this is all
about setting up preset groups
customized preset groups for your
blenders now of course dis applies to
all your tools so it's a useful and
interesting way to customize your user
interface and ArtRage basically there's
a whole bunch of blenders here and if
you're doing watercolor work the vast
majority of them don't apply um you know
knife edge trail doesn't do anything to
my painting into some funky thing here
you can see but it doesn't do much of
any use it's not what I'm want to
achieve and the same thing goes for this
so these these are not of use to me and
mostly they're making it difficult for
me to quickly pick one I want to pick I
don't want to see them all I want my own
special watercolor group da da da you'll
see here that's what I got going on so I
made myself a new group and I am
beginning to import things into it so
we're just going to sort of begin this
process here i'm going to show you how
to do it the first thing is here they
are you want to make a new one right so
you're going to hit this little guy here
outcomes add preset group
no preset there we go group cuz why not
be consistent okay I say there we are we
have a new preset group if I click down
it appears in this little you know
flyout menu and of course the problem is
it's empty right and over here I got all
these guys if I tap on it or i right
click it you know I want to delete it
rename it I want to move it I want to
copy it but it won't let me do that and
this is where it gets mount a lot like
it's tricky it just gets not RPG get to
Windows II i'm going to open up by user
tools preset folder here it lists those
wonderful new groups that i've created
right let's bring that back in so let's
hit the watercolor blenders here it has
the blenders in it here's the new preset
group it has nothing in it well where
the heck are all my knife presets it
says I'm on knife but I can't see any of
them there's none of these so how do I
actually go about getting it what you're
going to need to do is um let's back up
onto your window is you're going to have
to go into your you C Drive or whatever
your main drive is where you keep your
program files for our range you're going
to open it up there so let's do that
really briefly right I go over here I
open it up hit computer by that I need
more gigabytes of RAM Here I am ambient
design artrage studio pro resources and
tool presets knife
and here they all are all those ones
I've wanted now I can come over here and
i can hit my new preset group and i can
begin to import these so i'm just going
to start but I want to move it over
right no no that's right click it copy
let's do here there we go copy paste and
voila when you have the beginnings of a
new list and this will allow me to
access only a small segment of blenders
those blunders that are particularly
used to me when i'm using my watercolor
tool it'll save me having to sort of
browse through all these other blenders
so that's where these are hidden and
that's where you got to go to find them
these presets so that you can import
them into your new group and move them
around folder to folder and migrate them
once you close this up of course the
problem is it doesn't magically appear
there these are still empty the truth is
you actually at the close ArtRage and
reopen it when you reopen it and you go
back to open up your you know your knife
and you go to hit your presets you'll
find that you're all here they all are
like normal then i'll hit new preset
group and voila they will be there
waiting for you to use them where you
only have three or four or five of your
presets the ones you religiously use and
you want it to be scrolling through 10
or 12 or whatever it is now the other
thing just so you know I do have Sumi
blending tools this came from a packet
of tools designed to sort of emulate
soon we bring paint techniques and it's
in a thread at the artrage forms called
so sue me why don't you Sunnis felt
within as um I and as part of the packet
of download of tools he added a set of
blenders which I found useful and that's
why they're in here so you can find them
there as well if you want to use them or
try them out the
arms are a great place to go if you just
want to import things from your knife
tool you can follow the steps that I've
already shown you and you can copy and
paste them from one folder into the
other folder and then reboot artrage and
they'll appear in your new group so
that's that for now it's not going to
change the world but it will save you
some grumpiness as you try to look for
that ridiculous preset again and you can
try to hit the list that's it for now
i'll be talking with you guys soon i
hope this little lesson was helpful